Q:

Difference between SLAM and "3D reconstruction"?

I'm reading this paper: http://arxiv.org/abs/1310.2053 (The role of RGB-D benchmark datasets: an overview) and see the following words:

Thanks to accurate depth data, currently published papers could
  present a broad range of RGB-D setups addressing well-known problems
  in computer vision in which the Microsoft Kinect ranging from SLAM
  [10, 12, 19, 17, 35, 11] over 3d reconstruction [2, 33, 38, 32, 1]
  over realtime face [18] and hand [30] tracking to motion capturing and
  gait analysis [34, 41, 8, 7, 4]

I thought of the term SLAM and 3D Reconstruction being the same thing, while the paper says the opposite with a bunch of citations (which still haven't tell the two apart).
In my opinion, Mapping in SLAM is the same term as 3D Reconstruction, while Localization is the essential part for Mapping. So I don't find a difference between SLAM and 3D Reconstruction, am I wrong (or is the author misclassfying)?

A:

You are right about the sameness of SLAM and 3D reconstruction. At the same time I don't think the author is misclassifying.
The english is a little non-standard. The author could have better said it as:

...ranging from SLAM to 3D reconstruction to realtime face and hand tracking to ...

I think the paper lists both separately to better organize their references more than to highlight the differences.
The differences depend on what your viewpoint is. If you consider navigating an archeological site with a vehicle versus recording data about the site for historical preservation, they are different. Differences in sensors and real-time vs offline processing, and what algorithms work best in each situation.
Perhaps the main difference to consider is that in 3D reconstruction, the path of the sensors is not part of the goal and is discarded (or not estimated) at will. Meanwhile, in SLAM, the actual geometry and content of the environment is not as important as it's topology and your ability to localize within it.
The algorithms you mention, Kinfu, ElasticFusion, etc, call themselves SLAM, dense maps of the environment, and perhaps represent an evolution in the technology where the processing power and sensing available means that one need not optimize towards one goal (reconstruction) or the other (navigation). So you can look at it as the two categories, SLAM and 3D reconstruction, converging. 

