Q:

Are there any famous mathematicians who did regular physical workouts?

Because regular physical exercise is in theory linked to better brain function and is also recommended in another question here on stack exchange, I wonder if there are any famous mathematicians who reputedly adhered to a strict exercise routine.
I already asked this question on Mathematics Stack Exchange but it has been closed for being off topic. So far the following mathematicians were mentioned:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leopold_Vietoris
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Urschel
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythagoras
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Turing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ronald_Graham
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Arnold

Math and mental fatigue
Capitalizing on cortical plasticity: influence of physical activity on cognition and brain function
Be smart, exercise your heart: exercise effects on brain and cognition
Fitness, aging and neurocognitive function

A:

Niels Bohr's brother, Harald Bohr, was a notable mathematician and football (soccer) player.  

Harald August Bohr (22 April 1887 – 22 January 1951) was a Danish mathematician and football player. After receiving his doctorate in 1910, Bohr became an eminent mathematician, founding the field of almost periodic functions. His brother was the Nobel Prize-winning physicist Niels Bohr. He was a member of the Danish national football team for the 1908 Summer Olympics, where he won a silver medal.
Bohr was also an excellent football player. He had a long playing career with Akademisk Boldklub, making his debut as a 16-year-old in 1903. During the 1905 season he played alongside his brother Niels, who was a goalkeeper. Harald was selected to play for the Danish national football team in the 1908 Summer Olympics, where football was an official event for the first time. Though a Danish side had played at the 1906 Intercalated Games, the opening match of the 1908 Olympic tournament was Denmark's first official international football match. Bohr scored two goals as Denmark beat the French "B" team 9–0. In the next match, the semi-final, Bohr played in a 17–1 win against France, which remains an Olympic record to this day. Denmark faced hosts Great Britain in the final, but lost 2–0, and Bohr won a silver medal. After the Olympics he made one further appearance for the national team, in a 2–1 victory against an England amateur team in 1910. 
His popularity as a footballer was such that when he defended his doctoral thesis the audience was reported as having more football fans than mathematicians.

A:

CHEVALLEY depicts HERBRAND as an adventurous, passionate, and often perfectionistic personality who was not only interested in mathematics, but also in poetry and sports. In particular, he seemed to have liked extreme sportive challenges: mountaineering, hiking, and long distance swimming. His interest in philosophical issues and foundational problems of science was developed well beyond his age.

Wirth, C. P., Siekmann, J., Benzmüller, C., & Autexier, S. (2009). Lectures on Jacques Herbrand as a logician. arXiv preprint arXiv:0902.4682. 

A:

Mathematicians do not differ from other people in all respects except their professional activity. So fraction of mathematicians who regularly exercise and
involved with some sport is the same as for other people.
For example, all sorts of physical exercises were very popular among the
Soviet mathematicians of 20 century, as we can see from their memoirs.
(Kolmogorov, Aleksandrov, Uhryson, Vinogradov etc.)
Long kayaking and mountaineering trips were especially  popular. Most Soviet mathematicians 
of the middle 20th century participated in them.
Besides kayaking and mointaineering the most popular activities were
rowing, swimming, skiing, soccer, volleyball,  even weight lifting. There is even a Russian book on this: Sadovskii, Mathematics and sport,
http://math.ru/lib/bmkvant/44.

