Q:

Leibniz's stand on axioms and definitions

Recently while discussing with a friend he claimed that Leibniz was fond of proceeding axiomatically and from definitions.
I find this hard to believe. My conception is that Leibniz was more interested in intuition and the process of construction rather than endproducts. This is exemplified by these two quotes:

Nothing is more important than to see the sources of invention which are, in my opinion, more interesting than the inventions themselves.

This quote I found in Polya's How to Solve It.

I am convinced that the unwritten knowledge scattered among men of different callings surpasses in quantity and in importance anything we find in books, and that the greater part of our wealth has yet to be recorded.

This is from Wikiquote, alledgedly from here.
Am I wrong?

A:

In a letter to Hermann Conring 1678, Leibniz writes in latin (my asterisk): 

Axiomata ego non ut ais, αναπόδεικτα*, sed tamen plerumque non
  necessaria demonstratu esse arbitror. Demonstrabilia vero esse pro
  certo habeo. Unde enim constat nobis de eorum veritate? non, opinor ex
  inductione, ita enim omnes scientiae redderentur empiricae, ergo ex
  ipsismet, id est ex earum terminis: quod fit vel quando idem dicitur
  de seipso (ex. causa, A est A, unumquodque sibi ipsi aequale est, et
  similes identicae) vel quando sola terminorum significatione sive quod
  idem est definitione, intellecta statim apparet propositionis veritas.
  Omnes ergo propositiones certae demonstrari possunt praeter identicas
  et empiricas.

My poor attempt at an translation. The Axiomata ego non ut ais, αναπόδεικτα part:

The axioms is not as you say, αναπόδεικτα (unsubstantiated/proofless),

The letter in its entirety can be found here. 162. LEIBNIZ AN HERMANN CONRING (Latin).
I noticed that the letter in Marcelo Dascal's Leibniz: What Kind of Rationalist? is  similar in some regards, that translation is as follows (page 162): 

I regard axioms not, as you say, as something apodictic but only as
  something that in most cases does not require a proof. Yet that they
  are demonstrable, I believe to be certain. Whence does it come that we
  are certain about their truth? As I believe, not from induction, since
  in that way all sciences would be rendered empirical; thus, from
  themselves, i.e. from their terms, which happens when the same is said
  of the same (e.g., A is A, everything is equal to itself, and similar
  identical propositions) or when only from the signification of terms
  or, what is the same, from the understood definition the truth of the
  proposition is apparent. 

*I am not entirely sure this is the greek word. It looks a bit different in the text.

A:

This is a long comment...
I'm not able to give a complete answer "in general". 
But if we consider specifically his logical works, we can see in :

Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Logical Papers : A Selection (edited by G.H.R.Parkinson, 1966), at least :

A Specimen of the Universal Calculus (1679-86 ?), page 33-on
Addenda to the Specimen of the Universal Calculus (1679-86 ?), page 40-on.

In the last one [page 42] we can find :

[Six] Propositions true in themselves :

(1) a is a. An animal is an animal.
(2) ab is a. A rational animal is an animal.

[...]

An inference true in itself : a is b and b is c, therefore a is c.

Thus, he has a clear understanding of axioms and rules in logic.

If we instead consider his mathematical works, the "failure" to axiomatize the infinitesimal calculus must not be considered a failure : we have to consider that it takes a couple of centuries only to attain a viable axiomatization of the real number system.

