Q:

Inscriptions on a 16th century 3-dimensional permutahedron sundial?

Does anyone know what the inscriptions, written presumably in Latin, are on this 3-D permutahedron sundial by Stefano Buonsignori (16th century) in the Medici collection presented by Museo Galileo?

A:

From the Museums in Florence site History of Science page, referring to a pair of panels comprising the Horary Quadrant (see below for description) of the Buonsignori sundial:

The front of this finely decorated quadrant carries (1) a brass disk with markings for days, months, and zodiac signs, and (2) a moon dial. There is a magnetic compass for orientation. On the back of the instrument are a shadow square, a degree scale, and a sundial with unequal hour lines set for latitude 43°30' (Florence). Made by Stefano Buonsignori, as 
  indicated by the initials - D.STEP. B.F.F.- [Stefano Buonsignori Florentinus Fecit]. Provenance: Medici collections.

Presumably the mounted compass allows the user to correctly orient the sundial and thus read the applicable gnomon (the brass piece protruding from each panel used to cast a shadow).
Here, we are using the term quadrant to refer to an instrument used to measure angles up to ninety degrees.
The four different quadrants are :

The sine quadrant, used for solving trigonometric problems and taking astronomical observations.
The universal quadrant, used for solving astronomical problems for any latitude.
The horary quadrant, used for finding the time with the sun.
The astrolabe quandrant, a quadrant developed from the astrolabe used to represent the position of celestial bodies.

A:

The following is an e-mail kindly sent to me by Giorgio Strano, a curator at the museum:
Besides the usual "Tropicus Cancri", "AEquator", etc. the sundial contains the following sentences:
"Ad Latitudinem Graduum Quadragintatrium Minutorum Triginta" (For the latitude of 43° 30')
"Sol idem semper, [nec non (?)] semper currit et ue[rtit ('?)]" (The sun is always the same, [however ?] it always runs and [turns around ?])
"Non sic antiq[ui]s notus, nunc tempora monstro" (I show the time of today, not as it was known to the ancients [i.e. the dial shows equal, not unequal hours])
"Surgentem ostendo solem, ostendoq[ue] cadentem" (I show the rising and the setting Sun)
[ (?)] indates plausible integrations of a sentence where the words in the sundial are scratched away
[ ] indicates resolved Latin abbreviations
I hope this information is what you were looking for.
Best regards,
Giorgio Strano
Curator 

