Q:

What are examples of serendipity in the history of the sciences and math?

Cosmic microwave background radiation was discovered after Penzias & Wilson couldn't get rid of the noise generated by their horn. In fact, the noise was their discovery.
The strings in string theory were introduced in the context of the strong interaction to make the back-then newly discovered interaction between quarks visible. The strings turned out to be applicable (in closed form) even to gravity, certainly not what they were intended for.
What are other examples of serendipity in the sciences?
(If someone has a tag suggestion it is welcome)

A:

In 1961, Edward Lorenz was running a numerical simulation of weather systems.  To restart a run half-way, he copied the initial values from a previous printout — but saw that the simulation began to diverge from the previous run.
This turned out to be the result of the printout showing values that were rounded to 3 decimal places, without the full precision used in the calculations.  He expected the resulting errors to stay small; but instead, they grew exponentially, doubling roughly every four simulated days, until after two simulated months the weather scenario was completely different.
He thus encountered what is now known as the butterfly effect.

A:

One famous example is that of Alexander Fleming. He left a cup of staphylococci on his desk and later discovered that it was contaminated with some fungus. Instead of disposing this cup, he started to investigate and the result was the discovery of penicillin, the first antibiotic. This is how he later described this himself:

One sometimes finds, what one is not looking for. When I woke up just after dawn on September 28, 1928, I certainly didn't plan to revolutionize all medicine by discovering the world's first antibiotic, or bacteria killer. But I suppose that was exactly what I did.

A:

One example is radioactivity. In 1896, Henri Becquerel was working on an experiment involving a uranium-enriched crystal. He believed that sunlight was the reason that the crystal would burn its image on a photographic plate. But then, on a day, the weather was bad, with dark clouds blocking the light from the Sun. Becquerel packed up his stuff and decided to continue his research on another sunny day.
Some few days later, he retrieved the crystal from a darkened drawer, but the image burned on the plate was, as he described, “fogged.” The crystal emitted rays that fogged a plate, but were dismissed as weaker rays compared to William Roentgen's X-rays. Becquerel wouldn't go on to put a name to the phenomenon. He left that for a couple of fellow scientists: Pierre and Marie Curie.

